---
publishDate: 2008-02-19
title: "My 2008 MS 150 Adventure from Houston to Austin"
excerpt: "#post_excerpt"
category: "Fitness"
author: "Mike Roberto"
wpSlug: "ms-150"
wpYear: 2008
comments_count: 27
metadata:
  canonical: "https://www.mikeroberto.com/2008/ms-150"
---

2025 Update: This page has been updated to include all of my 2008 MS 150 postings. I was "micro-blogging" throughout the event (well ahead of its time!), but that doesn't work so well on a blog. So all postings and  comments are merged here.

## Riding the 2008 MS 150 From Houston to Austin:  Help Donate!

Hey everyone!

On April 12, I will be joining the [MS 150](http://www.ms150.org/ms150/index.cfm), a 2-day biking adventure from Houston to Austin to help raise funds for people living with Multiple Sclerosis.

The path is roughly 165 miles long.  The 2008 tour map isn't out yet, but the 2007 map [broken link] was similar.

**I need to raise $400.00 to the MS Society to ride.  Please help me by donating a few bucks to my MS150 fund.**

In return for your donations, I promise to work very hard and finish the race (barring any major catastrophes).

Most of you know that I'm a swimmer and not a biker.  In order to learn more about the hardcore training that bikers go through, I've been reading Cyclist's Training Bible by Joel Friel.  It is for bikers way more experienced than myself, but I enjoy the technical and scientific aspects of the sport.

I've been training along the South Bay Bike Path, which gets extremely interesting once you make it past the airport and into Venice Beach.  For hill work, I will begin going to parts of this Palos Verdes Peninsula path.

Thanks for your endless support!
berto

PS:  I am going to be taking a break from writing for a while.  My past few articles have received a great amount of traffic, and I should ride that momentum, but I have too many projects going on for now.  I'll be back later, feel free to [contact me](https://www.mikeroberto.com/contact-me/).

*Chronological Updates:*

## American Airlines Tries to Put Damper on MS150

*Published on Apr 10, 2008 at 9:24PM*

There's nothing quite like getting an e-mail from your airline that says "CANCELED" when you're on your way to the airport.

Then again, you weren't surprised, since you're flying on an American Airlines MD-80, which [has been grounded due to someone forgetting to use the proper colored tie-wrap](http://www.bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=newsarchive&sid=acSr8bRypE6o).

(changing to first tense) So I went home while getting American Airlines on the phone and checked my options.  Fly into San Antonio with another airline?  See what American could do for me?  DRIVE for 20 hours halfway across the country?? (Yes, I was willing to do this since all you donators [who will be thanked later]) didn't pay money to see me get stuck in LA!

Finally, I got a nice young woman on the line, and explained to her that I'd love to see if I could get flown into Austin by Friday or Houston by Saturday, but would need to fly out of Austin regardless.  Feeling the confused expression on her face, I explained the bike race, the Multiple-Sclerosis Foundation, and was generally flexible and charming (I only have about 10 minutes of this superpower per day, and wisely used it then).

She then booked me on a non-MD-80 flight to Dallas, after which she'd get me to Austin tomorrow 3 hours before our bus leaves for Houston.  Perfect!

Little did I know that this wonderful woman also booked me on first class!  So while [250,000](http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2008/04/10/business/main4007185.shtml) travelers are stranded, I'm sitting there flying to Texas in first class with a glass of wine, a real meal, and plenty of legroom! Thank you so much random customer service representative - Let's get married!

Not wanting to get stuck in Dallas, I rented a car and drove to Austin.

So greetings from Austin, fortune has lied in our favor and we're ready to ROCK!

## Howdy From Houston

*Published on Apr 11, 2008 at 6:34PM*

This is a test post from my phone. I have some bugs in my tracker program but I think I figured the quirks out. 
This part of Houston is a hellhole.  I can see why this ride is FROM Houston and not TO it... Nobody would want to participate!  The most epic part of the ride is leaving this area and hopefully not returning for a year!

In all seriousness, we're stoked and ready to go, and James' bike is phenomenal!  See ya early in the morning!

## Beagling in Bellville

*Published on Apr 12, 2008 at 08:40*

Lunch time!

I'm ahead of most of my friends, so I'm waiting around to eat with them.

So far all is good, my main ride partner has been Kristen, James' girlfriend.

Just before lunch we hit some hills, nothing tough, but I realized how much I like climbing. I was pasing everyone in high gear.

The beginning of the ride was a bit frustrating for the faster guys, which doesn't include me really. It takes until the first breakpoint to separate the chumps from the champs and to scatter everyone.  In the meantime, you got these cyclists who are completely passive aggressive and get mad at people who hang on the left, and rightly so sometimes. But shut up with the snide comments!

The GPS is tracking but I'm low on battery and when I lose intenet access in the middle of nowhere, things shut down. 

Ok everyone is here, see ya!

## 100 Miles, 90 Against Wind

*Published on Apr 12, 2008 at 4:04PM*

We're in La Grange!

The ride ended up great, after lunch I tore it up on the third quarter, but really struggled the next 15 miles.

My bike says I averaged 15mph and it took 6.5 hours. 

I didn't mention this, but we faced 10-15 mph winds nearly the entire time. This was nothing new for me, but it really wore on us as the day went on.

I did a lot of riding with Eric G, and then Platt and Dylan. Good times, we did a lot of drafting off each other. 

Time for a drink and the best night of sleep under a tent ever!  I feel like jello.

See you in Austin!

## Cold Morning!

*Published on Apr 13, 2008 at 07:15*

La Grange was cool, but by 4am it got way too cold in Texas last night. 

So I cacooned up in the sleeping bag and didn't wake up until the last minute. I'm a bit behind the early birds!

Now I'm at a rest stop, I took the challenge route but took a wrong turn and ended up with the slackers. Probably for the better!

So now its time to catch up and cookem out there. I really wish I didn't forget my headphones in Austin. I'd love to have them around my neck.

Biofreeze rules!

## Lunch and the Hunt

Eric, Steve, Jessica, and Kristen are 8 miles ahead of me. There are 32 or so miles to Austin. 

The hunt is ON. 

## 173.29 Miles Later...

Yall know I love Austin, but never has it felt so good to get back in!

I made it in at 2PM on the nose after traveling through tons of farm country, the Austin outskirts, and then into downtown and through UT. 

Results from the hunt?  Success!  The lion has caught the gazelle and will be eating well tonight!

## Thank You to my MS150 Sponsors

*Published on Apr 16, 2008*

I'd like to thank all of my sponsors who donated to the Multiple Sclerosis Foundation for my ride into Austin.  Here's the list of everyone, in order of contribution date:

- Ashley

- Uncle Anthony

- Rowler

- Jordan

- Geri

- Aunt Maddie

- Gramma

- Marilyn G.

- Joe P.

- Mom

- [Brian](https://www.mikeroberto.com/2007/03/19/guest-writer-brian-music-review-dark-tranquillity-fiction/)

- Brother Nick

- Aunt Patty

- Big Mike Roberto

- Kathy G.

- Ddoson

- John Z.

- Lon

- KiRBY!

- Allison and Polly

- Jamie

THANKS!

## Addendum: Cheers to My Personal Hero, C. Reeve

*Published on Apr 18, 2008*

Those of you who followed me during the MS150 know how I excited I was on ["the hunt"](#the-hunt).  Immediately after [I finished](#173-miles-later) the ride, I pulled my cell phone out of my bag and messaged Eric to see if he finished yet.

In the process, my ID and the $23 wrapped around it must have slipped out, because it was gone after that.  I realized this later, and had to get to the airport early to board the flight and get searched.

So guess what I got in the mail today:

A letter from C. REEVE (let's call him 'Christopher', for the obvious reasons) of Bridges Fairway in Houston:

> FOUND THIS DL. ON THE STREETS OF AUSTIN, 4-13-08

with my ID enclosed.  How amazing is that?!  'Christopher', you're my new hero!  As much as I love this part of California, Texas is the only place where I see such friendly people.  Awesome!

THANKS CHRISTOPHER!

Thank you for following this journey!

---

## Archived Comments (27)

<div class="archived-comments">
<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Uncle A</strong> • <time>2008-02-20 07:59:56</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    Don&#x27;t forget your Speedo.  I sent a donation even though I spelled my name wrong!!! It said successful so I assume it will go thru. I once did a mile on my tri-cycle going down Murray Hill road. Crashed into MaMa Santo&#x27;s so I quit and had a Pizza instead.  Good Luck
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Kathy Gambatese</strong> • <time>2008-03-05 06:47:04</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    Hi Michael,

Bravo for choosing to honor a loved cousin by giving your time, spirit, and energy to a very worthy effort. Will keep you in our prayers for a safe and successful ride. You make all of us who shared in your growin&#x27; proud.
Mr. and Mrs. G
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>lon</strong> • <time>2008-04-19 11:54:21</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    so was the $23 returned too?  The answer will determine my poll vote.
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Berto</strong> • <time>2008-04-19 11:59:22</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    No - But how do we know if Christopher took it or someone else did and threw the ID back onto the street?

Or if the money was even still wrapped around the ID (it was just folded) after it fell and got kicked around a bit?
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Mike Roberto&amp;#8217;s Blog &amp;raquo; Cheers to My Personal Hero, C. Reeve</strong> • <time>2008-04-18 20:02:00</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    [...] of you who followed me during the MS150 know how I excited I was on &amp;#8220;the hunt&amp;#8221;. Immediately after I finished the ride, I pulled my cell phone out of my bag and messaged Eric to [...]
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Kristin</strong> • <time>2008-04-15 07:21:24</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    Why didn&#x27;t add the fact in that you froze your shorts?
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Yo- Momma</strong> • <time>2008-02-28 17:18:55</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    Another Berto adventure that no one else in our family would ever attempt.  Once again, we are proud.  I guess learning to ride a 2-wheeler at the age of 4 really paid off!!!!!!  Wish I could be watching on the sidelines - dousing you w/ water and cheering &quot;Go Mikey Go!!!!!! (just like the swim meets).......  Be safe and as always, have a great time.
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Geri</strong> • <time>2008-04-13 13:05:24</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    Yeah Mickey! we are sooo proud, Mazel tov! Hope you enjoy the rest of your day...and maybe a hot bath and a real bed.
Love
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>&quot;Big&quot; Mike</strong> • <time>2008-02-27 21:44:07</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    Great enthusiasm for a great cause....
Work hard, have fun and enjoy the ride.
My donation is submitted.
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Antmaddie</strong> • <time>2008-02-21 09:42:43</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    Mikey...what a great thing to do...I&#x27;m sure you will do well...make us proud..
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>CHUCK BURMEISTER</strong> • <time>2008-02-22 10:59:01</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    MIKE I AM GLAD YOU ARE DOING SOMETHING THAT I HAVE NEVER DONE FOR A GREAT CAUSE. IT ALSO AT JUNTURE NOT HAPPEN BECAUSE I COULD NOT RIDE 2 MILES,LAEVING MY RIDE ABOUT 163 MILES SHORT. GOOD LUCKAND GOD BLESS.      CHUCK
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Bill</strong> • <time>2008-02-21 20:31:31</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    Good for you Mike. If you want to schedule a training ride I&#x27;ll dust off my bike and go with you. Only on hill days though. After your ride lets get a surf in.

Bill
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Joe Pinzone</strong> • <time>2008-02-21 20:39:50</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    Mike, thanks so much for honoring my sister&#x27;s memory.   Have a safe and enjoyable ride.  If you ever head North, be sure to contact us.
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Michelle Mack McManus</strong> • <time>2008-03-08 09:29:32</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    Mike,

Thanks for riding in memory of my mom.   While she&#x27;s no longer suffering, there are many others who still are.  I hope your trip is a success and that it leads to a cure for this devastating disease.

Again, thanks for doing this in memory of my mom.

Michelle
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Uncle A</strong> • <time>2008-04-11 04:01:08</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    Opps. Didn&#x27;t think the first one transmited. By the way your clock in wrong. It&#x27;s 7:57 am here and 4:57 there. No wonder you get phone calls so early
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Uncle A</strong> • <time>2008-04-11 03:18:42</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    Glad to hear you used your charming and flexible 10 minute a day trait to good advantage. I know where you inherited that Gene, no name mentioned. Good luck and have a safe ride.  I plan on using my 10 minutes later today.
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Uncle A</strong> • <time>2008-04-11 03:23:19</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    Glad you used your charming and flexible 10 minute trait to good advantage. I know where you inherited that gene, no name mentioned.  Good luck and have a safe ride.  I&#x27;m goin to use my 10 minutes later today
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>lon</strong> • <time>2008-04-11 13:21:38</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    Glad to see you made it there on time.  I will track you periodically as I have no life.  On another completely unrelated note, why in the world to Browns players continue to get surgery performed at the Cleveland Clinic?  Any new signees should demand treatment at another facility in their contract!
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Geri</strong> • <time>2008-04-12 03:35:06</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    go Mikey go!
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Mike Roberto&amp;#8217;s Blog &amp;raquo; Cheers to My Personal Hero, C. Reeve</strong> • <time>2008-04-18 20:04:16</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    [...] followed me during the MS150 know how I excited I was on &amp;#8220;the hunt&amp;#8221;. Immediately after I finished the ride, I pulled my cell phone out of my bag and messaged Eric to see if he finished yet (he had [...]
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Geri Simon</strong> • <time>2008-03-11 02:24:15</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    Just another month of training, Good luck Mickey! We&#x27;re all rooting for you!
Have fun and safe travels.
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Geri</strong> • <time>2008-04-12 14:12:06</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    What did you eat for lunch? lots of protein?! Go Mickey go!
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Uncle A</strong> • <time>2008-04-13 03:49:45</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    Son, when I was your age I used to walk that far to school every day in the snow and all uphill pulling the dog sled.

Your Uncle from Noam, Alaska
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>The Momma Berto</strong> • <time>2008-05-08 11:43:45</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    A thank you note is ALWAYS a feel good way to let someone know how much you appreciate what has passed between you.  Also, send him the link to your blog - he has officially made the famous Berto Blog in the most positive way.  But, perhaps the best thing you can do is, as they say, PAY IT FORWARD..........

P.S.  How DID you get on the airplane - did you once again use your 10 minutes of daily charm???
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>The Momma Berto</strong> • <time>2008-04-13 15:40:03</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    Way to go Mikey.  Congratulations on a fine finish - done in true Berto style.  Another notch in the belt of adventures.  Now go get your wetsuit and goggles and get back in the ocean!!!!
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Big Mike</strong> • <time>2008-04-14 14:21:27</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    Congratulations on a great effort....
Your determination to finish and to support such a great cause
says much about your character....
  </div>
</div>

<div class="comment">
  <div class="comment-meta">
    <strong>Temple</strong> • <time>2009-01-25 12:40:46</time>
  </div>
  <div class="comment-content">
    Just to support the decent peeps in Cali: I lost my DL about 2 years ago while skateboarding (don&#x27;t ask). Much to my amazement I got a card in the mail about 2 weeks later with my DL and a nice note explaining the woman found it while on a morning jog and wanted to return it to me, as she hoped someone would do for her. My point- there are nice people everywhere :)
  </div>
</div>

</div>